README.md, before:

# FullReco_SimuPhase1

The full reconstruction code for Geant4 simulations of the solenoid-type experiment at FRS.

The code consists in the framework developed by the HypHI collaboration for the two first
HypHI experiments (phase0 & phase0.5). It is responsible for the track and event
reconstruction of simulated and experimental data. It uses the external library, Genfit,
for the Kalman Filter. It is written in C++14.

## Installation

OS X & Linux:

1.  first:

```sh
git clone git@gitlab.com:HypHI-GSI/FullReco_SimuPhase1.git
```

2.  then you need to activate the submodule for Genfit:

```sh
cd FullReco_SimuPhase1
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

3.  Because the sub repository of Genfit will be only on a detached head, I think it is
better to assign a branch to the current and local repository:

```sh
cd src/Genfit2_v2
git checkout -b hyphidev remotes/origin/HypHIdev
```

Now all repositories are set.

4.  The local directory should look like this:

geo/
src/
src/.deps
lib/
input/
field/

The following directories are mandatory : geo/, src/, src/.deps and lib/. 
If lib or .deps is missing just:
```sh
mkdir lib
mkdir src/.deps

```
| Dir:   | Usage:                                            |
|--------|---------------------------------------------------|
| geo/   | Gathers geometry rootfiles                        | 
| src/   | Source directory                                  |
| lib/   | Installation directory for the compiled libraries |
| input/ | Gathers parameter files for calibrations          |
| field/ | Gathers field map files                           |

## Requirements

External: ROOT v6 + boost + Genfit library
Build: make + gcc > 5.1 or clang > 3.8 

Your $PATH must include ROOT bin directory. Example:
```sh
echo $PATH
/home/christophe/root-6/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/bin/X11
```
Your $LD_LIBRARY_PATH must include `pwd`/lib and ROOT lib directory. Example:
```sh
echo $LD_LIBRARY_PATH
./lib:/home/christophe/root-6/lib
```

In src/Genfit2_v2: you need to have a build directory:
```sh
cd src/Genfit2_v2
mkdir build
```
Then configure Genfit build with:
```sh
cd build
cmake ..
```

Genfit can be built:
```sh
make 
make install
```

Then to build everything (-j# is for parallel compilation with # being number of cpu):
```sh
cd src
make -j#
cd ..
```

You will have the libraries in lib/ and the executable ./MainSimu


## Usage example

./MainSimu -e 1000 -g ./geo/GeoWasaRealSolenoidFront.root Output.root run_H3LWithA_WasaFront3_Field1.8T.root

command line options:
--help / -h : prompt the help
--cpu / -c : number of cpus 
--num / -n : cpu id for event splitting
--event / -e : total number of event to analyze
--start / -s : start from this event id
--geo / -g : path to geometry rootfile to use 

Usage / help message:

!> Example of use:
!> ./MainSimu[-c nb_cpu] [--cpu nb_cpu] [-n fraction] [--num fraction] [-s start_ev] [--start start_ev] [-e nb_event] [--event nb_event] [-h] [--help] OutputFile RootInputFile

It takes first the command line options, then the output rootfile name, then one input rootfile name.


## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Merge Request

Commit message:

Add explanation on build process of spdlog library to README
Add the explanation of the necessary steps to build the spdlog
library through their cmake build process to the README

README.md, after:

# FullReco_SimuPhase1

The full reconstruction code for Geant4 simulations of the solenoid-type experiment at FRS.

The code consists in the framework developed by the HypHI collaboration for the two first
HypHI experiments (phase0 & phase0.5). It is responsible for the track and event
reconstruction of simulated and experimental data. It uses the external library, Genfit,
for the Kalman Filter. It is written in C++14.

## Installation

OS X & Linux:

1.  first:

```sh
git clone git@gitlab.com:HypHI-GSI/FullReco_SimuPhase1.git
```

2.  then you need to activate the submodule for Genfit:

```sh
cd FullReco_SimuPhase1
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

3.  Because the sub repository of Genfit will be only on a detached head, I think it is
better to assign a branch to the current and local repository:

```sh
cd src/Genfit2_v2
git checkout -b hyphidev remotes/origin/HypHIdev
```

Now all repositories are set.

4.  The local directory should look like this:

geo/
src/
src/.deps
lib/
input/
field/

The following directories are mandatory : geo/, src/, src/.deps and lib/. 
If lib or .deps is missing just:
```sh
mkdir lib
mkdir src/.deps

```
| Dir:   | Usage:                                            |
|--------|---------------------------------------------------|
| geo/   | Gathers geometry rootfiles                        | 
| src/   | Source directory                                  |
| lib/   | Installation directory for the compiled libraries |
| input/ | Gathers parameter files for calibrations          |
| field/ | Gathers field map files                           |

## Requirements

External: ROOT v6 + boost + Genfit library
Build: make + gcc > 5.1 or clang > 3.8 

Your $PATH must include ROOT bin directory. Example:
```sh
echo $PATH
/home/christophe/root-6/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/bin/X11
```
Your $LD_LIBRARY_PATH must include `pwd`/lib and ROOT lib directory. Example:
```sh
echo $LD_LIBRARY_PATH
./lib:/home/christophe/root-6/lib
```

In src/Genfit2_v2: you need to have a build directory:
```sh
cd src/Genfit2_v2
mkdir build
```
Then configure Genfit build with:
```sh
cd build
cmake ..
```

Genfit can be built:
```sh
make 
make install
```

In src/spdlog: you need also to have a build directory:
```sh
cd src/spdlog
mkdir build
```

Now spdlog can configure with:
```sh
cd build
cmake .. -DSPDLOG_BUILD_EXAMPLE=OFF -DSPDLOG_BUILD_TESTS=OFF -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=..
```

And spdlog can be built:
```sh
make
make install
```

Then to build everything (-j# is for parallel compilation with # being number of cpu):
```sh
cd src
make -j#
cd ..
```

You will have the libraries in lib/ and the executable ./MainSimu


## Usage example

./MainSimu -e 1000 -g ./geo/GeoWasaRealSolenoidFront.root Output.root run_H3LWithA_WasaFront3_Field1.8T.root

command line options:
--help / -h : prompt the help
--cpu / -c : number of cpus 
--num / -n : cpu id for event splitting
--event / -e : total number of event to analyze
--start / -s : start from this event id
--geo / -g : path to geometry rootfile to use 
--log / -l : setting the level of logging: -1 = quiet mode, no stdout output / 0 = warning and higher / 1 = info and higher / 2 = debug and higher (default being 1)  

Usage / help message:

!> Example of use:
!> ./MainSimu [-c nb_cpu] [--cpu nb_cpu] [-n fraction] [--num fraction] [-s start_ev] [--start start_ev] [-e nb_event] [--event nb_event] [-l lvllog] [--log lvllog] [-h] [--help] OutputFile RootInputFile

It takes first the command line options, then the output rootfile name, then one input rootfile name.


## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Merge Request
